okay so the pixel four and the pixel
four Excel are not so regular
smartphones because the company that
makes them Google is not a regular phone
company they're not even a hardware
company they're a software company that
just happens to make hardware to flex
how good their software really is now if
you look at the older pixel phones like
the first the second and third
generation of pixel phones these are
phones that have a clear focus on
software particularly like Google
Assistant and how they integrate all the
apps and features of the Google
ecosystem into their voice controlled
stuff and also their camera system like
not the hardware like the actual camera
lens and the sensor in their pixel
phones isn't particularly special but
it's what they do in software that
really makes their computational
photography shine so clearly pixel
phones are software based devices but
this year with the pixel 4 during the
presentation they drew a lot of
attention to two Hardware features the
90 Hertz screen and how smooth and fluid
it was as well as their new radar based
motion sensing tech and in doing so I
think they inadvertently shifted
people's attention away from the
traditional stuff that pixel is known
for their amazing software onto hardware
which is really not what Google's pixel
phones are all about and that's where
there's a bit of a problem because the
optics are like the public perception of
these phones the pixel for and the pixel
for excel is a little bit skewed because
of that marketing so first I want to
talk about this new radar sensing tech
the truth is this technology is freaking
awesome and what we're seeing the
implementation that we see on the pixel
for in the pixel for excel right now
isn't its full potential because when
you look at Google's original video of
this technology from 2015 they had a
team of these really passionate
engineers developing this radar tech and
the capability has looked amazing like
you had this fine fingertip control not
just your fingers but actually just
rotating and tweaking your fingertips
could give you this precise control of a
variety of interfaces like that example
they had of that map where you could
move the map around and zoom in and zoom
out with just your fingertips like that
looked incredibly useful like we've all
been there we've manipulated maps on our
phones and it's like your face
obscuring what you're looking at that
map control looks amazing
but that's not what we have in this
first generation or first iteration of
this hardware
we don't have fingertip control we don't
even have fingers roll it's full hand
movement which is honestly not nearly as
useful but you can't fault them like you
can't fault Google for putting this
radar tech into this phone cuz a lot of
people like that's so stupid it's a
gimmick I would never use my phone like
that that's not the point they put this
sensor in here as step one so that
people can get used the idea of gestured
based controls for their phones but
where I think they messed up was in
marketing it the way they did like when
you put this much effort and time into
talking about this feature when its
current capabilities are so limited it
just opens them up to criticism and I
think for some people they'll be
disappointed like if you purchase this
phone thinking that that tech has a more
substantial functionality than it
actually does
you'd be disappointed so what I think
they should have done is still include
the radar tech but not talk about it so
much as it was some kind of headlining
feature and just worked on the software
over time until it became really awesome
now another feature that's kind of
controversial but this phone is its
price if price can be considered a
feature this thing starts at 800 bucks
for the small one 900 bucks for the big
one maybe it's from tariffs or a
particular profit margin they have to
hit but these phones are very expensive
on paper but the thing that sucks is
that they're often way cheaper than
their launch price like pixel phones
usually go on sale on Black Friday by
like 150 200 bucks so it's I don't know
it's just weird to me that they still
launch these phones at such a high price
but then over the course of 12 months
they just consistently drop this price
on the phone companies like oneplus and
Apple like they don't drop the prices on
their phones these guys go and sell all
the time I don't know it's obviously a
business strategy they do it on purpose
but I feel like if they just launched
this phone at a more appropriate price
people wouldn't criticize him for these
high prices from the get-go now if I
look at this phone with this different
perspective where the pixel four is now
is 650 or $700 phone and I temper my
expectations of what this radar
technology is supposed to do this phone
is great I love the screen the 90 Hertz
refresh rate is fantastic the face
unlock is super fast like literally the
fastest face unlock that have used the
speaker's sound great
not much
from the pixel 3 offered last year but
still excellent speakers and the battery
life this is some that a lot of people
were concerned about myself included a
2800 milliamp hour battery in the small
pixel 4 with a 90 Hertz refresh rate and
battery life is not great I was honestly
disappointed now I think whatever
software they're using to down clock
that refresh rate from 90 down to 60 is
quite aggressive and it's like a six
hour maybe six and a half hour screen in
time if you use your phone a lot you
might run out of juice before the end of
the day but if you're lighter user I
don't think that's an issue camera so
this is a topic that I think is gonna be
more subjective this year both the pixel
4 and the iPhone 11 Pro or iPhone 11 are
going to have the best cameras in the
market right now they're so close to
each other they're different and how the
images look but it's it's hard for me to
say which one is better or worse if I
had to pick a winner it would actually
be the iPhone 11 like this is just a
personal thing I find the iPhone 11 zap
easier to use because there's no
selection of nitesite specifically it
just happens automatically and for the
average person I think that should be
the way the default camera app should
handle it but I do find that the pixel
for handles low-light a little better on
faces it just looks a little cleaner to
me but one thing for sure
both of these cameras have better image
quality than the oneplus 70 and I think
that's a comparison a lot of people make
because this is also rocking a 19 but
it's 200 bucks cheaper and it has double
the storage so if you're deciding
between the two like it should be
relatively simple if you care a lot
about picture quality and you want to
have the best possible camera on your
smartphone pixel 4 is the option I mean
that's what this thing offers it's a
relatively unique experience to have 90
Hertz screen with the best possible
camera pixel for okay hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs we liked it
subs we loved it see you guys next time